Usually small pastry shells filled with sweet mincemeat; since Early Modern times actual meat omitted.
Suet pudding filled with pieces of beef and kidney in thick gravy.
Suet crust dumpling with a savoury filling one end, sweet filling the other.
The savoury filling is usually meat with diced potatoes and vegetables.
The sweet filling can be jam, cooked apple or other fruit.
Steamed pudding made with flour and suet, with meat or fruit mixed in.
Split peas or lentils cooked until soft and thick.
Souffle batter baked in very hot oven.
Smoked split herrings.
Small bread-like cakes often with raisins.
Slow-baked meat and root vegetables.
Shrimps preserved under melted butter.
Sausages cooked in a tray of batter.
Roast beef with Yorkshire pudding is a national dish of the United Kingdom.
Purple podded peas soaked overnight and simmered until mushy.
Pudding with suet pastry and dried vine fruits, usually served with custard.
Pieces of chicken tikka in a spiced creamy sauce.
Pictured is liver and onions.
Pastry shell filled with thick sweet treacle mixture.
Pastry shell filled with meat and potatoes.
Pastry shell filled with bananas, cream and toffee.
Pastry shell filled with almond-flavoured sponge cake on a thin layer of jam.
Developed from 1826 Bakewell pudding.
Minced meat with onions in a suet pastry, which is then boiled or steamed.
Melted cheese on toast.
Meat, minced or in pieces, with mashed potato crust.
Meat stew with carrots, potatoes, onions.
Mashed potatoes and sausages, sometimes served with onion gravy or fried onions.
Note that while sausages may date to the time given, potatoes are from the Americas and were not introduced to Europe until the 16th century.
Long sausage.
Lamb or beef stew with potatoes, carrots and onions, cf Norwegian lapskaus.
Ice cream sundae in a tall glass, often with nuts, fruits, meringue, and chocolate sauce; served with whipped cream and a glace cherry.
Heavy flat bread.
Fruit or savoury filling, covered with a scone mixture and baked.
Fried mashed potato with cabbage.
Flaky pastry with butter and currants.
Fish pie with sardines poking out of the piecrust, looking at the stars.
Cylindrical pie filled with pork and meat jelly.
Cold dessert with varied ingredients, often sponge fingers and fortified wine, jelly, custard, and whipped cream, usually in layers.
Cold dessert made with cream, alcohol and sugar, often with citrus flavouring.
Chicken or other cutlet in breadcrumbs.
Cauliflower in a thick cheese sauce.
Bread, cheese, apple, pickles.
Blood sausage.
Beef, kidneys and gravy in a pastry shell.
Beef cooked in a pastry crust.
Beef and gravy in a pastry shell.
Can also include ingredients such as ale, kidney, oysters, potato and root vegetables.
A selection of fried foods such as sausages, bacon, eggs, mushrooms, bread, tomatoes; options include kippers, baked beans.
A pie crust, whether all round or only on top, with a filling of sweetened apple.
Baked beans are beans cooked in a tomato sauce.
They come in cans and are normally eaten on toast.
The Britsh are very fond of baked beans.
This is mashed potatoes with sausages in gravy.
Gravy is a type of meat sauce made by mixing the meat juices with some cornflour.
In Britain it is very common to use products to make gravy such as Bisto which is cornflour and gravy browning.
This has recently been superceded by gravy granules which are easier to use.
If not enough flavour can be obtained from the meat it is normal to add an "oxo" cube.
Oxo is a popular type of stock cube.
A thick sausage made with blood and fat.
There are similar sausage in other countries but black pudding has very little filling such as rice or bread and is almost all blood and fat.
A batter made with flour, eggs and milk and cooked in the oven.
This is most often eaten with roast beef for Sunday lunch.
Batter is the same mixture that is used to make pancakes.
When done right, the sauce should be a multifaceted affair; a balanced blend of intense spice flavors with a gingery kick rounded off by the richness of cream and butter, with a splash of freshness and acid from tomatoes and citrus.
As you bite into a chunk of chicken, the smokey char should work its way though to the forefront, to be slowly replaced by a new layer of spicing, this time intensified by its time on the grill.
The chicken chunks should be juicy, moist, and.
This is a very popular thing to eat if you go to eat in a "pub" at midday.
It normally consists of a bread roll with a piece of cheese and a pickled onion.
By the way there are many very good pickles that you can buy at the supermarket for example "branston pickle".
Branston Pickle is not sold in any other countries but it is the perfect companion to cheese.
The most famous is Cheddar.
Most of the cheeses are named after the region from where they come from.
Red Leicester, Cheshire etc.
There is a very good British blue cheese called Stilton although it can be rather expensive.
Another very Britsh addition to a Ploughman's is Pickled Walnuts.
This is only normally eaten in Scotland.
It is sheep's intestine stuffed with meat and vegetables.
This is a very hearty breakfast and it consists of bacon, eggs, fried bread, baked beans, fried or scrambled eggs, fried tomatoes, mushrooms, black pudding, toast etc.
Be warned that if you eat this everyday you will most likely put on a lot of weight.
A pie is some food surrounded by pastry.
Pastry is a mixture of flour and butter.
It is normally baked in the oven.
The content of the pie can be sweet or savoury.
Typical examples of pies are "steak and kidney pie" or "apple pie".
When done right, the sauce should be a multifaceted affair; a balanced blend of intense spice flavors with a gingery kick rounded off by the richness of cream and butter, with a splash of freshness and acid from tomatoes and citrus.
As you bite into a chunk of chicken, the smokey char should work its way though to the forefront, to be slowly replaced by a new layer of spicing, this time intensified by its time on the grill.
The chicken chunks should be juicy, moist, and.
This dish is not usually eaten as a dessert like other puddings but instead as part of the main course or at a starter.
Yorkshire pudding, made from flour, eggs and milk, is a sort of batter baked in the oven and usually moistened with gravy.
The traditional way to eat a Yorkshire pudding is to have a large, flat one filled with gravy and vegetables as a starter of the meal.
Then when the meal is over, any unused puddings should be served with jam or ice-cream as a dessert.
Sausages covered in batter and roasted.
Similar to Yorkshire Pudding but with sausages placed in the batter before cooking.
Typical meats for roasting are joints of beef, pork, lamb or a whole chicken.
More rarely duck, goose, gammon, turkey or game are eaten.
This is England's traditional take-away food or as US would say "to go".
Fish and chips are not normally home cooked but bought at a fish and chip shop, a chippie, to eat on premises or as a "take away" Ploughman's Lunch This dish is served in Pubs.
It consists of a piece of cheese, a bit of pickle and pickled onion, and a chunk of bread.
Made with minced lamb and vegetables topped with mashed potato.
Made with minced beef and vegetables topped with mashed potato.
A casserole of meat and vegetables topped with sliced potatoes.
Pie and Mash with parsley liquor A very traditional East End London meal.
The original pies were made with eels because at the time eels were a cheaper product than beef.
About fifty years ago, mince beef pies replaced the eels and have now become the traditional pie and mash that people know.
The traditional pie and mash doesn't come without its famous sauce known as liquor which is a curious shade of green and definitely non-alcoholic.
The liquor tastes much nicer than it looks.
Jellied eels are also an East End delicacy often sold with pie and mash Chicken Salad Bubble Squeak Typically made from cold vegetables that have been left over from a previous meal, often the Sunday roast.
The chief ingredients are potato and cabbage, but carrots, peas, brussels sprouts, and other vegetables can be added.
The cold chopped vegetables, and cold chopped meat if used, are fried in a pan together with mashed potato until the mixture is well-cooked and brown on the sides.
The name is a description of the action and sound made during the cooking process.
Bangers are sausages in England.
Looks like a black sausage.
It is made from dried pigs blood and fat.
Eaten at breakfast time black pudding recipes vary from region to region, some are more peppery and some are more fatty than others.
This famous pork sausage is usually presented coiled up like a long rope.
What this soup is depends on who is cooking it.
Originally a south Indian dish, the name means pepper water in tamil, has been adopted and extensively adapted by the British.
contains chicken or meat or vegetable stock mixed with yogurt or cheese or coconut milk and is seasoned with curry and various other spices.
It is sometimes served with a separate bowl of rice.
A simple and quick, thus the name, steamed pudding of milk, flour, butter, eggs, and cinnamon.
Oysters may seem unlikely in this meat pudding, but their great abundance in the Victorian age and earlier eras inspired cooks to find ways to incorporate them creatively in many different recipes.
This steamed pudding combines the meats with mushrooms, onions, tomatoes, and Worcestershire, then wraps the whole in a suet pastry.
In fact fish is still important to the English diet, we are after all an island surrounded by some of the richest fishing areas of the world.
Many species swim in the cold offshore waters: sole, haddock, hake, plaice, cod, turbot, halibut, mullet and John Dory.
Oily fishes also abound, mackerel, pilchards, and herring, as do crustaceans like lobster and oysters.
Eel, also common, is cooked into a wonderful pie with lemon, parsley, and shallots, all topped with puff pastry.
Beef suet is used to bind chopped nuts, apples, spices, brown sugar, and brandy into a filling for pies or pasties - not to be confused with minced meat!
In the seventeenth century, a milkmaid would send a stream of new, warm milk directly from a cow into a bowl of spiced cider or ale.
A light curd would form on top with a lovely whey underneath.
This, according to Elizabeth David, was the original syllabub.
Today's syllabub is more solid. Its origins can also be traced to the seventeenth century, albeit to the upper classes. It mixes sherry and/or brandy, sugar, lemon, nutmeg, and double cream into a custard-like dessert or an eggnog-like beverage, depending upon the cook.
Layers of alcohol-soaked sponge cake alternate with fruit, custard and whipped cream, some people add jelly, but that's for kids.
Pig's liver is made into meatballs with onion, beef suet, bread crumbs, and sometimes a chopped apple.
Faggots used to be made to use up the odd parts of a pig after it had been slaughtered.
A potato baked in the oven until the skin is crispy and the inside fluffy.
It is split down the middle and served with butter or margarine and a variety of toppings such as tuna and mayonnaise, cheese and beans, cheese and coleslaw, etc.
You will even find potato vans on the street selling fresh, hot jacket potatoes.
A thick, sweet, creamy vanilla-flavoured sauce, typically served with sponge desserts, made mainly with milk, eggs, sugar and vanilla pods.
Consists of black tea with milk served in a teapot accompanied by a range of cakes, pastries and light sandwiches.
Cheddar cheese accompanied by cooked ham, pickle or relish, apples, pickled onions, salad leaves and crusty bread.
A favourite among the British consisting of quite simply Cumberland sausages, or variations, served on a generous pile of mashed potatoes with peas and rich onion gravy.
The British are great fans of these savoury pastries.
Great for on the run, a pie consists of a round-shaped pastry, deep-filled with a variety of savoury fillings including cheese and potato, meat and potato and chicken and mushroom, etc.
The main ingredients are freshly rendered lard, flour, sugar, spices, currants and raisins. Lardy cake can be eaten at any time of day as a snack, but is most commonly consumed in the afternoon with tea or coffee. Lardy cakes are very rich and sweet and eaten traditionally for special occasions, high days and holidays and harvest festivals.
The cake is made by layering thinly rolled dough with the other ingredients.
Scotland's national dish — is made by mixing sheep's pluck, heart, liver, and lungs, with oatmeal, onion, and seasoning.
Though haggis has traditionally been cooked in the animal's stomach, it's usually made in sausage casing today.
A classic British dish, though many people outside of the UK would avoid it.
This and other smoked fish like bloaters, cold-smoked herring, are usually served with brown bread and a lemon wedge for breakfast.
marrowfat peas which have been soaked overnight then boiled with sugar and salt to form a green mush — is a side dish traditionally served with fish and chips.
brown shrimps preserved in nutmeg-flavoured butter and stored in a glass jar.
Made by filling shortcrust pastry with “mincemeat” which consists of a mix of dried fruit, peel, and suet. It may be a Christmas staple, but those outside of the UK often don't like the sound of them.
consists of sausages baked into a Yorkshire pudding batter.
ideal for picnics and pub snacks, but are an acquired taste for non-Brits.
Roughly-chopped pork is coated in pork jelly before being wrapped in a hot water crust pastry and baked.
may look unusual, but they are a signature snack in most British pubs.
A hard-boiled egg is encased in sausage meat before the whole thing is rolled in breadcrumbs and baked or deep-fried.
deep-fried pig skin.
They are heavy, hard and have a crispy layer of fat under the skin.
Sometimes some meat and hairs can be found.
The scratchings are generally flavoured with salt, but sometimes additional flavourings can be added.
While the precise ingredients vary from place to place, some common choices include fried eggs, sausages, bacon, toast, beans, grilled tomato, fried mushrooms, fried potatoes, and black and/or white pudding.
Includes beef, onion, and potato along with a turnip-like vegetable called a swede.
Round muffins with a distinctive texture, they are soft, and are absolutely perfect for soaking up butter along side a warm cup of tea!
Quality beef, preferably aged, and then roasted at a moderate to high temperature so that the outside is well cooked and dark in colour but the centre of the joint is still somewhat pink.
Served with yorkshire pudding to soak up the rich beef gravy.
Should be complimented with horseradish sauce and a dash of mustard.
This is Britain’s signature meal that gave rise to the French insult ‘rosebifs’ and the name of the guards at the Tower of London – the famous Beefeaters.
This UK favourite is traditionally made on a Monday from the leftovers of the roast beef Sunday Lunch.
The remaining beef is ground up and mixed together with some fresh cooked beef mince.
A layer of mashed potato is spread over the top and shaped with the back of a fork before being returned to the over to crisp up the topping.
The meal is believed to have first appeared between 1690 and 1730 and by 1791 was being commonly referred to as cottage pie.
believed to have originated as a way of keeping cured meat for longer periods of time as the contents were also set in a salty jelly as well as a baked crust casing.
which had been covered in breadcrumbs and deep fried.
often stuffed with raisins.
often filled with raisins.
often studded with raisins.
A savoury pie with a pastry lid, filled with a mixture of diced beef and kidney, fried onion and brown gravy. Not for the faint-hearted, it’s a great winter warmer and delicious with a side order of vegetables.
Not as strange as it sounds and nothing to do with toads! This is another sausage dish, but this time the sausages are baked in Yorkshire pudding batter. It’s usually served with gravy and vegetables.
Not in the mood for meat? Fisherman’s pie is classic pub grub. The pie is made with smoked whitefish in a white or cheddar cheese sauce, topped with mashed potato. It can also contain prawns and hard boiled eggs. Best served with garden peas!
A traditional lunch brought out to the fields by ploughmen, this cold plate of  cheese, pickle and crusty bread is simple yet delicious. You might also have some apple, boiled eggs, ham or pickled onions on the side. As its name suggests, it’s usually eaten at midday and not something you’d see on an evening pub menu.
Here’s one for the kids, a colourfully layered cream, ice cream and fruit sundae served in a tall glass. A long spoon is essential if you want to get to the bottom!
Liver and onions is a dish consisting of slices of liver and onions.
onion is favoured as an accompaniment to liver as the sharp flavour of onion "cuts" the somewhat metallic flavour of liver, which can be off-putting to some eaters.
The liver and the onions are usually fried or otherwise cooked together, but sometimes they may be fried separately and mixed together afterwards.
The liver is often cut in fine slices, but it also may be diced.
The Victoria sponge, also known as the Victoria sandwich or Victorian cake,was named after Queen Victoria, who was known to enjoy a slice of the sponge cake with her afternoon tea.
The sponge part evolved from the classic pound cake – equal quantities of butter, sugar, eggs and flour. The difference was the Victorian creation of baking powder, which was discovered by English food manufacturer Alfred Bird in 1843, which enabled the sponge to rise higher.
This invention, writes cookery author Felicity Cloake, "was celebrated with a patriotic cake", Victoria sponge.
A typical Victoria sponge filling consists of strawberry jam and whipped double cream, thick cream with a high fat-content.
The jam and cream are sandwiched between two sponge cakes; the top of the cake is not iced or decorated apart from a dusting of icing sugar.
The Women's Institute publishes a variation on the Victoria sandwich that has strawberry jam as the filling and is dusted with caster sugar, not icing sugar.
Suet pastry is used to line a bowl into which the steak and kidney mix is placed with onions, stock etc.
A suet pastry lid is then placed on top and sealed tightly.
The top is then covered with muslin cloth which is tied round the bowl.
This is placed in a covered saucepan and steamed for about four hours or until the pudding is cooked.
It is made by layering slices of buttered bread scattered with raisins in an oven dish, over which an egg custard mixture, made with milk or cream and normally seasoned with nutmeg, vanilla or other spices, is poured. It is then baked in an oven and served.
Pease pudding, also known as pease pottage or pease porridge, is a savoury pudding dish made of boiled legumes, typically split yellow peas, with water, salt, and spices, and often cooked with a bacon or ham joint.
Pease pudding is typically thick, somewhat similar in texture to, but perhaps a little more solid than, hummus, and is light yellow in colour, with a mild taste.
Pease pudding is traditionally produced in England, especially in the industrial North Eastern areas.
It is often served with ham or bacon, beetroot and stottie cakes.