Usually small pastry shells filled with sweet mincemeat; since Early Modern times actual meat omitted
Suet pudding filled with pieces of beef and kidney in thick gravy
Suet crust dumpling with a savoury filling one end, sweet filling the other. The savoury filling is usually meat with diced potatoes and vegetables. The sweet filling can be jam, cooked apple or other fruit.
Steamed pudding made with flour and suet, with meat or fruit mixed in
Split peas or lentils cooked until soft and thick
Souffle batter baked in very hot oven.
Smoked split herrings
Small bread-like cakes often with raisins
Slow-baked meat and root vegetables
Shrimps preserved under melted butter
Sausages cooked in a tray of batter
Roast beef 1700s,[27] Yorkshire pudding (1747),[28] roast potatoes, vegetables. Roast beef with Yorkshire pudding is a national dish of the United Kingdom.[6]
Purple podded peas soaked overnight and simmered until mushy
Pudding with suet pastry and dried vine fruits, usually served with custard
Pieces of chicken tikka in a spiced creamy sauce
Pictured is liver and onions
Pastry shell filled with thick sweet treacle mixture
Pastry shell filled with meat and potatoes
Pastry shell filled with bananas, cream and toffee
Pastry shell filled with almond-flavoured sponge cake on a thin layer of jam. Developed from 1826 Bakewell pudding[35]
Minced meat with onions in a suet pastry, which is then boiled or steamed.
Melted cheese on toast
Meat, minced or in pieces, with mashed potato crust
Meat stew with carrots, potatoes, onions
Mashed potatoes and sausages, sometimes served with onion gravy or fried onions. Note that while sausages may date to the time given, potatoes are from the Americas and were not introduced to Europe until the 16th century.
Long sausage
Lamb or beef stew with potatoes, carrots and onions, cf Norwegian lapskaus
Ice cream sundae in a tall glass, often with nuts, fruits, meringue, and chocolate sauce; served with whipped cream and a glace cherry
Heavy flat bread
Fruit or savoury (e.g. beef) filling, covered with a scone mixture and baked
Fried mashed potato with cabbage
Flaky pastry with butter and currants
Fish pie with sardines poking out of the piecrust, looking at the stars
Cylindrical pie filled with pork and meat jelly
Cold dessert with varied ingredients, often sponge fingers and fortified wine, jelly, custard, and whipped cream, usually in layers
Cold dessert made with cream, alcohol and sugar, often with citrus flavouring
Chicken or other cutlet in breadcrumbs
Cauliflower in a thick cheese sauce
Bread, cheese, apple, pickles
Blood sausage
Beef, kidneys and gravy in a pastry shell.
Beef cooked in a pastry crust
Beef and gravy in a pastry shell. Can also include ingredients such as ale, kidney, oysters, potato and root vegetables
A selection of fried foods such as sausages, bacon, eggs, mushrooms, bread, tomatoes; options include kippers, baked beans
A pie crust, whether all round or only on top, with a filling of sweetened apple
Baked beans are beans cooked in a tomato sauce. They come in cans and are normally eaten on toast. The Britsh are very fond of baked beans.
This is mashed potatoes with sausages in gravy. Gravy is a type of meat sauce made by mixing the meat juices with some cornflour. In Britain it is very common to use products to make gravy such as Bisto which is cornflour and gravy browning. This has recently been superceded by gravy granules which are easier to use. If not enough flavour can be obtained from the meat it is normal to add an "oxo" cube. Oxo is a popular type of stock cube.
A thick sausage made with blood and fat. There are similar sausage in other countries but black pudding has very little filling such as rice or bread and is almost all blood and fat.
A batter made with flour, eggs and milk and cooked in the oven. This is most often eaten with roast beef for Sunday lunch. (Batter is the same mixture that is used to make pancakes)When done right, the sauce should be a multifaceted affair; a balanced blend of intense spice flavors with a gingery kick rounded off by the richness of cream and butter, with a splash of freshness and acid from tomatoes and citrus. As you bite into a chunk of chicken, the smokey char should work its way though to the forefront, to be slowly replaced by a new layer of spicing, this time intensified by its time on the grill. The chicken chunks should be juicy, moist, and
This is a very popular thing to eat if you go to eat in a "pub" at midday. It normally consists of a bread roll with a piece of cheese and a pickled onion. By the way there are many very good pickles that you can buy at the supermarket for example "branston pickle". Branston Pickle is not sold in any other countries but it is the perfect companion to cheese. (I always buy a jar when I go to England) British cheeses are very good. The most famous is Cheddar. Most of the cheeses are named after the region from where they come from eg. Red Leicester, Cheshire etc. There is a very good British blue cheese called Stilton although it can be rather expensive. Another very Britsh addition to a Ploughman's is Pickled Walnuts
This is only normally eaten in Scotland. It is sheep's intestine stuffed with meat and vegetables.
Full English Breakfast
This is a very hearty breakfast and it consists of bacon, eggs, fried bread, baked beans, fried or scrambled eggs, fried tomatoes, mushrooms, black pudding, toast etc. If you stay in a bed and breakfast or a hotel you will normally be offered a "Full English". Be warned that if you eat this everyday you will most likely put on a lot of weight.
A pie is some food surrounded by pastry (pastry is a mixture of flour and butter). It is normally baked in the oven. The content of the pie can be sweet or savoury. Typical examples of pies are "steak and kidney pie" or "apple pie". There are variations of the pie such as cornish pasties. Pasties were originally invented so that working men could take their food to work with them. Someone told me that miners in the Cornish tin mines invented the cornish pastie. I suppose that if you work in a mine it is too much trouble to come to the surface to have lunch.
When done right, the sauce should be a multifaceted affair; a balanced blend of intense spice flavors with a gingery kick rounded off by the richness of cream and butter, with a splash of freshness and acid from tomatoes and citrus. As you bite into a chunk of chicken, the smokey char should work its way though to the forefront, to be slowly replaced by a new layer of spicing, this time intensified by its time on the grill. The chicken chunks should be juicy, moist, and
Typical Traditional British Dishes Learn about Christmas in England from the children who live in Britain Christmas traditions why do what we do at chrsitmas time Traditional British dishes have had competition from other dishes over the years. Despite this, if you visit England, Scotland or Wales, you can still be served up the traditional foods we have been eating for years. This page contains some of England's most popular traditional dishes. "Harry’s mouth fell open. The dishes in front of him were now piled with food. He had never seen so many things he liked to eat on one table: roast beef, roast chicken, pork chops and lamb chops, Yorkshire pudding, peas, carrots, gravy, ketchup and, for some strange reason, mint humbugs." Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone, J. K. Rowling Main meal dishes in England Roast Beef Yorkshire Pudding Toad-in-the-Hole Roast Meats Fish and Chips Ploughman's Lunch Cottage Pie Shepherd's Pie Gammon Steak with egg Lancashire Hotpot Bubble and Squeak English Breakfast Bangers and Mash Black Pudding Bacon Roly-Poly Cumberland Sausage Pie and Mash with parsley liquor Roast beef and Yorkshire pudding This is England's traditional Sunday lunch, which is a family affair. Recipe Yorkshire Pudding This dish is not usually eaten as a dessert like other puddings but instead as part of the main course or at a starter. Yorkshire pudding, made from flour, eggs and milk, is a sort of batter baked in the oven and usually moistened with gravy. The traditional way to eat a Yorkshire pudding is to have a large, flat one filled with gravy and vegetables as a starter of the meal. Then when the meal is over, any unused puddings should be served with jam or ice-cream as a dessert. Recipe Toad-in-the-Hole (sausages covered in batter and roasted.) Similar to Yorkshire Pudding but with sausages placed in the batter before cooking. Recipe Roast Meats ( cooked in the oven for about two hours) Typical meats for roasting are joints of beef, pork, lamb or a whole chicken. More rarely duck, goose, gammon, turkey or game are eaten. Roast Gammon Traditional accompaniments to roast meats With beef: Horseradish sauce English mustard Yorkshire pudding Gravy With mutton and lamb Onion sauce Red-currant jelly Mint sauce Savoury herb pudding With pork Apple sauce Pease Pudding Roast apples Sunday Roast Fish and chips Fish and chips Fish (cod, haddock, huss, plaice) deep fried in flour batter with chips (fried potatoes) dressed in malt vinegar. This is England's traditional take-away food or as US would say "to go". Fish and chips are not normally home cooked but bought at a fish and chip shop ("chippie" ) to eat on premises or as a "take away" Ploughman's Lunch This dish is served in Pubs. It consists of a piece of cheese, a bit of pickle and pickled onion, and a chunk of bread. text taken from and copyright of projcetbritain.com See a sample menu of food served in pubs Shepherds' Pie Made with minced lamb and vegetables topped with mashed potato) Cottage Pie (pictured right) Made with minced beef and vegetables topped with mashed potato. (Pictured right) Gammon Steak with egg (Gammon is ham) Lancashire Hotpot projetbritain.com A casserole of meat and vegetables topped with sliced potatoes. Pie and Mash with parsley liquor A very traditional East End London meal. The original pies were made with eels because at the time eels were a cheaper product than beef. About fifty years ago, mince beef pies replaced the eels and have now become the traditional pie and mash that people know. The traditional pie and mash doesn't come without its famous sauce known as liquor which is a curious shade of green and definitely non-alcoholic. The liquor tastes much nicer than it looks (it's bright green!). Jellied eels are also an East End delicacy often sold with pie and mash Chicken Salad Bubble Squeak Typically made from cold vegetables that have been left over from a previous meal, often the Sunday roast. The chief ingredients are potato and cabbage, but carrots, peas, brussels sprouts, and other vegetables can be added. The cold chopped vegetables (and cold chopped meat if used) are fried in a pan together with mashed potato until the mixture is well-cooked and brown on the sides. The name is a description of the action and sound made during the cooking process. English breakfast text taken from and copyright of projcetbritain.com Eggs, bacon, sausages, fried bread, mushrooms, baked beans A Full English Breakfast Bangers and Mash (mashed potatoes and sausages). Bangers are sausages in England. (The reason sausages were nicknamed bangers is that during wartime rationing they were so filled with water they often exploded when they were fried.) Cornish Pastie with chips, baked beans and salad Black Pudding (Blood Pudding) Looks like a black sausage. It is made from dried pigs blood and fat). Eaten at breakfast time Recipe Black pudding recipes vary from region to region, some are more peppery and some aremore fatty than others. text taken from and copyright of projcetbritain.com Bacon Roly-Poly (made with a suet pastry) Cumberland sausage This famous pork sausage is usually presented coiled up like a long rope Vegetables Favourite Children Meals Three favourite meals with children are fish fingers and chips, pizza and baked beans on toast
What this soup is depends on who is cooking it. Originally a south Indian dish (the name means pepper water in tamil), it has been adopted and extensively adapted by the British. Mullitgatawny contains chicken or meat or vegetable stock mixed with yogurt or cheese or coconut milk and is seasoned with curry and various other spices. It is sometimes served with a separate bowl of rice.
A simple and quick (thus the name) steamed pudding of milk, flour, butter, eggs, and cinnamon.
A simple and quick (thus the name) steamed pudding of milk, flour, butter, eggs, and cinnamon.
Oysters may seem unlikely in this meat pudding, but their great abundance in the Victorian age and earlier eras inspired cooks to find ways to incorporate them creatively in many different recipes. This steamed pudding combines the meats with mushrooms, onions, tomatoes, and Worcestershire, then wraps the whole in a suet pastry.
In fact fish is still important to the English diet, we are after all an island surrounded by some of the richest fishing areas of the world. Many species swim in the cold offshore waters: sole, haddock, hake, plaice, cod (the most popular choice for fish and chips), turbot, halibut, mullet and John Dory. Oily fishes also abound (mackerel, pilchards, and herring) as do crustaceans like lobster and oysters. Eel, also common, is cooked into a wonderful pie with lemon, parsley, and shallots, all topped with puff pastry.
Beef suet is used to bind chopped nuts, apples, spices, brown sugar, and brandy into a filling for pies or pasties - not to be confused with minced meat!.
In the seventeenth century, a milkmaid would send a stream of new, warm milk directly from a cow into a bowl of spiced cider or ale. A light curd would form on top with a lovely whey underneath. This, according to Elizabeth David, was the original syllabub. Today's syllabub is more solid (its origins can also be traced to the seventeenth century, albeit to the upper classes) and mixes sherry and/or brandy, sugar, lemon, nutmeg, and double cream into a custard-like dessert or an eggnog-like beverage, depending upon the cook.
Layers of alcohol-soaked sponge cake alternate with fruit, custard and whipped cream, some people add jelly, but that's for kids.
Pig's liver is made into meatballs with onion, beef suet, bread crumbs, and sometimes a chopped apple. Faggots used to be made to use up the odd parts of a pig after it had been slaughtered.